README.md, before:

# Covid-Case-Counter---My-First-Ever-Coding-Project

This is my story into how I started programming.

My story getting into programming is a not-so-straightforward in the grand scheme of my life, but also at the same time, kind of straightforward in some ways. 

Firstly let me share a quick brief history of my academic journey, this will highlight my intro to coding. 

WHen I graduated high school in 2015, I went straight into college. I didn't want to go straight into college after graduating, in fact I vividly remember telling all of my friends and family that I was going to take a gap year to figure out what I wanted to do. (That was partially true. Truth be told I just wanted to play video games and enjoy my time not having to wake up at 7 am anymore for 5 days out of the week). But near the end of my high school experience, as seniors, my school basically forced us to apply for college so I just said "whatever" and went with it. Which was a big mistake honestly, I really should have waited like I wanted to originally. 

So I learned that lesson the hard way. I went to community college for 2 years right after high school and literally failed half of my entire time there. (went for 2 years, failed a whole year's worth of classes). I really just wanted to stay home and play video games 24/7. I was an undisciplined dumb brat kid. A kid in a man's body, not ready to be an adult yet. 

After 2 years I finally dropped out of college and went a different path. Now before we move onto that, let me tell you so far something important about my college experience. 

I changed majors... A LOT in college. Because I know I'm smart enough to do just about anything, I was accepted happily into any major I wanted, and this i think is one problem with being so intelligent is that you have so many options to pick from and not enough years to do them all. haha. 

So anyways, when I first applied for college I applied for a major in media broadcasting, then changed (before classes even started for me) to Accounting, then changed from accounting to Computer Science - Cyber Security. I did CS for the vast majority of Community College before dropping out. During which time the only coding class I had ever taken was .... I don't even remember the name of the class ... but basically it was something like Intro to Visual Basic or something. 

I have no idea why they wanted us to learn a UI programming language for our first coding class, I thought it was kind of silly. In hindsight the class wasn't actually that hard, I just got so far behind in school I couldn't possibly hope to catch back up. Which is what lead me to drop out. I do miss my professor of that class, although I can't remember her name now, as it's been half a decade ago and I was only ever in one of her classes previously, she really was as sweet as could be and did whatever she could to help me. I was just too far gone at that point. 

Anyways. I dropped out of college in 2017. I then got a job as tech support for QuickBooks software for about 1 year and 9 months (I had numerous other really crappy part time retail jobs which I hated and are irrelevant for this story). But anyways this job was my first full time big boy job -- working as a customer service rep for such a massive company, it was really crazy to me. But it really was a decent job, not one you'd want to stay at forever but a great stepping stone kind of job I think to pivot into other avenues. 

Anyways during this job I had the opportunity to go back to school and I took it... sort of... my choices of majors were very limited and there were basically 0 STEM majors other than Psychology, so I chose accounting again since ya know I worked with QuickBooks so maybe now having more context this stuff might jump out at me more. Nope. Still boring. Wasn't for me. I dropped out of school AGAIN but this time literally after the first 5 week class (since it was online school it used a 5 week class model lol). Not even 8 weeks in I already dropped out of school again. (hilarious to say the least). 

Got a few more jobs after I left that job with more crappy call center gigs. During which time I started applying to schools to see my options. Almost went to DeVry University for Electronics Engineering but backed out at the last minute. 

Fast forward to I think 2020, I applied to ETSU (a local uni near me at the time), to go to school for Geology. I do like Geology but quickly discovered I just don't really care about it beyond typical internet research and conversation. So my heart wasn't fully there, and I switched to Chemistry. Learned the same thing about Chem too. Switched to Physics. Again same thing. Low and behold, I was only a few weeks away from class starting at ETSU after I already registered and had my meeting with my advisor when... wouldn't ya know it... I called the Financial Aid office to confirm I was good to go and wanted to make sure I was on the right track. Apparently I was not. They said I had taken too many classes and not passed enough of them. Not that my GPA was low (although it kind of was) -- it was that I had withdrawn from too many classes and switching majors constantly didn't help either. By this point I had changed my major like 8 times and I've not even spent more than 2 years in actual classes! (But I was doing a lot of research on each major I chose, so I was still making informed decisions). So basically TLDR ETSU told me to go F myself that they wouldn't accept my financial aid even though the gov't offered it to me, they politely were saying I didn't deserve it. I shouldn't paint them with such a bad light, the guy I talked to wasn't really mean, he was just enforcing a school policy. But it did put a bad taste in my mouth. ya know after so many years being out of school and finally coming back in only to get slapped in the face and kicked out before you've even begun, even after being "accepted" into the school. Sure you can go to our school but you have to use private loans instead of these government ones already given to you... yeah like that makes sense. 

Anyways. At this point I've been through 8 major changes. With no way out... what am I going to do? I can't keep working shitty entry level jobs for the rest of my life. I will not retire from a life of spending 50 years working at call centers. No can do. There has to be another way I can get a college education. 

I remembered that when I worked with QB, the school I was able to go to before was called Ashford University and I did actually really like the school, I just didn't like my major. So I decided to look up that university again. Turns out they've been swallowed up by university of Arizona (global campus as they call it now). So I decided to look more into the University of Arizona. 

Now you might be thinking this is the end of the story but not quite. See after I chose physics I learned a lot about the field of Optics. I learned that it was superrrrr cool and even to this day I have a lot of love for the field. It's my #2 favorite field before AI (but we'll get to that shortly). 

As it turns out, there are only like 4 colleges in the entire USA that have any sort of Optics or Photonics program of study. 1 of those 4 was University of Arizona. another was University of Central Florida. I applied to UCF just for kicks honestly because even if they accepted me I had no intention of actually going there. (I live in TN I can't afford to live in Florida as a broke college kid). Needless to say I actually got rejected from there and honestly I'm okay with it. But to this day it is the only school that's ever rejected me. (Not a huge deal though). 

So I then thought... Hmmm... well I can't live in Arizona right now, but I do have a lot of respect for the state. After all, Intuit has a location in Tuscon, same city as my school would be, and if anything I can just go to school online for now (since they have an online program), and then after a year or two if I ever move to AZ I can just get into their Optics program maybe! 

So I applied to UA. Now unfortunately I didn't know I wanted to do AI yet so when I originally applied and throughout my first semester, I was major in Electrical Engineering. Which btw I really like ECE, it's a cool major. Not exactly my top favorite thing but it's a decent field! But I soon realized that again I had the same problem as before. I highly respect Science and Engineering but honestly that's where the passion ends for me. I don't legitimately care about these things and I wouldn't devote an entire career to them. I still think learning about electrical stuff is cool but I'm not really an electronics hobbyist so I sorta said screw it, let's go back to CS. 

Now I was actually thinking of applying to other colleges when ... guess what... I found out my school had just recently launched a whole new program. Applied Computing (which is basically CS I mean come on) and they have a concentration in AI! Fantastic! 

I basically learned that no matter what field I jumped around in, I never stopped caring about AI. I have been fascinated with AI ever since I was a child. I legitimately mean that.

Commit message:

My story into programming and Academia

README.md, after:

# Covid-Case-Counter---My-First-Ever-Coding-Project

This is my story into how I started programming.

My story getting into programming is a not-so-straightforward in the grand scheme of my life, but also at the same time, kind of straightforward in some ways. 

Firstly let me share a quick brief history of my academic journey, this will highlight my intro to coding. 

WHen I graduated high school in 2015, I went straight into college. I didn't want to go straight into college after graduating, in fact I vividly remember telling all of my friends and family that I was going to take a gap year to figure out what I wanted to do. (That was partially true. Truth be told I just wanted to play video games and enjoy my time not having to wake up at 7 am anymore for 5 days out of the week). But near the end of my high school experience, as seniors, my school basically forced us to apply for college so I just said "whatever" and went with it. Which was a big mistake honestly, I really should have waited like I wanted to originally. 

So I learned that lesson the hard way. I went to community college for 2 years right after high school and literally failed half of my entire time there. (went for 2 years, failed a whole year's worth of classes). I really just wanted to stay home and play video games 24/7. I was an undisciplined dumb brat kid. A kid in a man's body, not ready to be an adult yet. 

After 2 years I finally dropped out of college and went a different path. Now before we move onto that, let me tell you so far something important about my college experience. 

I changed majors... A LOT in college. Because I know I'm smart enough to do just about anything, I was accepted happily into any major I wanted, and this i think is one problem with being so intelligent is that you have so many options to pick from and not enough years to do them all. haha. 

So anyways, when I first applied for college I applied for a major in media broadcasting, then changed (before classes even started for me) to Accounting, then changed from accounting to Computer Science - Cyber Security. I did CS for the vast majority of Community College before dropping out. During which time the only coding class I had ever taken was .... I don't even remember the name of the class ... but basically it was something like Intro to Visual Basic or something. 

I have no idea why they wanted us to learn a UI programming language for our first coding class, I thought it was kind of silly. In hindsight the class wasn't actually that hard, I just got so far behind in school I couldn't possibly hope to catch back up. Which is what lead me to drop out. I do miss my professor of that class, although I can't remember her name now, as it's been half a decade ago and I was only ever in one of her classes previously, she really was as sweet as could be and did whatever she could to help me. I was just too far gone at that point. 

Anyways. I dropped out of college in 2017. I then got a job as tech support for QuickBooks software for about 1 year and 9 months (I had numerous other really crappy part time retail jobs which I hated and are irrelevant for this story). But anyways this job was my first full time big boy job -- working as a customer service rep for such a massive company, it was really crazy to me. But it really was a decent job, not one you'd want to stay at forever but a great stepping stone kind of job I think to pivot into other avenues. 

Anyways during this job I had the opportunity to go back to school and I took it... sort of... my choices of majors were very limited and there were basically 0 STEM majors other than Psychology, so I chose accounting again since ya know I worked with QuickBooks so maybe now having more context this stuff might jump out at me more. Nope. Still boring. Wasn't for me. I dropped out of school AGAIN but this time literally after the first 5 week class (since it was online school it used a 5 week class model lol). Not even 8 weeks in I already dropped out of school again. (hilarious to say the least). 

Got a few more jobs after I left that job with more crappy call center gigs. During which time I started applying to schools to see my options. Almost went to DeVry University for Electronics Engineering but backed out at the last minute. 

Fast forward to I think 2020, I applied to ETSU (a local uni near me at the time), to go to school for Geology. I do like Geology but quickly discovered I just don't really care about it beyond typical internet research and conversation. So my heart wasn't fully there, and I switched to Chemistry. Learned the same thing about Chem too. Switched to Physics. Again same thing. Low and behold, I was only a few weeks away from class starting at ETSU after I already registered and had my meeting with my advisor when... wouldn't ya know it... I called the Financial Aid office to confirm I was good to go and wanted to make sure I was on the right track. Apparently I was not. They said I had taken too many classes and not passed enough of them. Not that my GPA was low (although it kind of was) -- it was that I had withdrawn from too many classes and switching majors constantly didn't help either. By this point I had changed my major like 8 times and I've not even spent more than 2 years in actual classes! (But I was doing a lot of research on each major I chose, so I was still making informed decisions). So basically TLDR ETSU told me to go F myself that they wouldn't accept my financial aid even though the gov't offered it to me, they politely were saying I didn't deserve it. I shouldn't paint them with such a bad light, the guy I talked to wasn't really mean, he was just enforcing a school policy. But it did put a bad taste in my mouth. ya know after so many years being out of school and finally coming back in only to get slapped in the face and kicked out before you've even begun, even after being "accepted" into the school. Sure you can go to our school but you have to use private loans instead of these government ones already given to you... yeah like that makes sense. 

Anyways. At this point I've been through 8 major changes. With no way out... what am I going to do? I can't keep working shitty entry level jobs for the rest of my life. I will not retire from a life of spending 50 years working at call centers. No can do. There has to be another way I can get a college education. 

I remembered that when I worked with QB, the school I was able to go to before was called Ashford University and I did actually really like the school, I just didn't like my major. So I decided to look up that university again. Turns out they've been swallowed up by university of Arizona (global campus as they call it now). So I decided to look more into the University of Arizona. 

Now you might be thinking this is the end of the story but not quite. See after I chose physics I learned a lot about the field of Optics. I learned that it was superrrrr cool and even to this day I have a lot of love for the field. It's my #2 favorite field before AI (but we'll get to that shortly). 

As it turns out, there are only like 4 colleges in the entire USA that have any sort of Optics or Photonics program of study. 1 of those 4 was University of Arizona. another was University of Central Florida. I applied to UCF just for kicks honestly because even if they accepted me I had no intention of actually going there. (I live in TN I can't afford to live in Florida as a broke college kid). Needless to say I actually got rejected from there and honestly I'm okay with it. But to this day it is the only school that's ever rejected me. (Not a huge deal though). 

So I then thought... Hmmm... well I can't live in Arizona right now, but I do have a lot of respect for the state. After all, Intuit has a location in Tuscon, same city as my school would be, and if anything I can just go to school online for now (since they have an online program), and then after a year or two if I ever move to AZ I can just get into their Optics program maybe! 

So I applied to UA. Now unfortunately I didn't know I wanted to do AI yet so when I originally applied and throughout my first semester, I was major in Electrical Engineering. Which btw I really like ECE, it's a cool major. Not exactly my top favorite thing but it's a decent field! But I soon realized that again I had the same problem as before. I highly respect Science and Engineering but honestly that's where the passion ends for me. I don't legitimately care about these things and I wouldn't devote an entire career to them. I still think learning about electrical stuff is cool but I'm not really an electronics hobbyist so I sorta said screw it, let's go back to CS. 

Now I was actually thinking of applying to other colleges when ... guess what... I found out my school had just recently launched a whole new program. Applied Computing (which is basically CS I mean come on) and they have a concentration in AI! Fantastic! 

I basically learned that no matter what field I jumped around in, I never stopped caring about AI. I have been fascinated with AI ever since I was a child. I legitimately mean that. So I reached out to my academic advisor, they directed me to what would be my advisor if I switched majors, I had an interview with them and submitted an application to jump aboard and they accepted me in! I was so excited. Finally I feel like I am where I belong and I can't get enough of AI content and I finally found out where I wanted to be. Not just because I respected the field or because it sounded cool. It was something I legitimately was interested in! This was like with 10th major change but so far it's my last! 

--------

So now let's talk about coding. As you can imagine I hadn't coded anything since my previous VB class back from 2017 or whenever and I still had bad memories of it. But I decided to give it another go. 

Now, I spend a lot of time on FaceBook and there is one page I always thought would be really easy to automate. There was a page on Facebook I followed called "daily updates on teh status of Michael Jackson's Health Condition" and every day the page would just post "He's Dead." and it was hilarious to me. Pure Gen Z humor. Great stuff. But I thought... this would be so easy for a computer program to automate ya know... 

But I thought just ripping off that page idea with another celebrity would be too easy (I eventually did it anyways with the betty white bot but oh well haha) -- so I thought... what is something people might want to see daily updates on on FB that would be really useful maybe? 

So I thought -- hmm -- how about Covid Cases? Now unfortunately I can't make a page that just shares covid cases for everyone's communities, that would be too out of hand and too big of an idea, so let's keep it simple and just create the covid case counter for the entire global cases. At least that is something to start with. 

And so I did. I found this amazing tutorial on YouTube by Skolo Online on how to create a FB posting script on Python and it has helped me tremendously. In fact I still go back to it from time to time to figure out things sometimes haha. So I credit most of this project to that. Then some other great tutorials out there that taught me how to use BeautifulSoup and the Requests library. 

Without amazing tutorials on YouTube, I never would have started my journey to programming. In fact I almost gave up making the FB bot until I stumbled upon these tutorials. I think if I would have gave up, life would have probably turned out a lot differently for me. I may have even given up on programming altogether and went back into ECE or something. (which nearly all STEM fields require at least some programming but still not as much as an AI or SWE position anyways). 

So that is the story of how I stumbled my way through life making various dumb decisions and mistakes along the way to find my true path. 

I should say now, I am still attending the University of Arizona and currently as of writing this have a 3.5 GPA and still going up! I also have written some pretty damn good Python scripts in the past 6 months of learning Python (it will literally be 6 months as of 07/26/2022, tomorrow as of writing this) in comparison to many people who just started 6 months ago, I have made pretty rapid progress and I attribute that to the great YT tutorials out there that I was able to use as well as starting projects with clear goals in mind. Instead of making basic calculator apps or whatever, I designed projects that I personally wanted to see in this world -- my drive and passion is what fueled my education further than anything else I think. 

Anyways, that's my story. I hope I will continue to grow and blossom even further beyond this point. But I hope you all enjoyed it as of right now.
